[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: Computed properties
work very nicely with the kinds
of simple properties that we've seen so
far.
You can get them, you can set them,
but the key difference
is that they're properties that
are derived from other values.
They're evaluated lazily.
So you define a function that
describes the calculation,
how do you establish a value C
from dependent values A and B?
And only when you ask for
the value of that computer property
is that calculation actually made.
The value is cached, meaning subsequent
retrievals of that value will
not cause the work to be redone unless
some dependent property has been changed.
So a very powerful concept,
a very efficient way of sort of
massaging things if you want
to capitalize a string and
then have that be what
you're showing in your UI.
This is a great way to make that work.
So here is an example of
a read-only computed property
that would be dependent on firstName and
lastName, and
it just is simply concatenating
these two strings together.
So only when we ask for full name will
this function that takes an array and
joins together with a space, only when we
ask for the property will it be calculated
and that's what we mean by, when we say it
is evaluated lazily, this is that concept.
So this is the sort of old way of
defining computer properties and
it's still 100% valid and
not in anyway deprecated
moving forward for
read-only computed properties.
This is another way to define it.
This is sort of the more modern syntax.
It was introduced in Ember 1.12,
so a very recent release.
And you'll notice here that,
instead of passing a function in to this
computed method,
this is passing a function in.
Instead, here, I'm passing in an object
which has a Git function in it.
The reason that this was done,
it has to do with the way setting computed
properties used to be structured.
Used to be one function and depending on
the number of arguments, you would be sort
of in getter mode or setter mode and
it became difficult to read and maintain.
So now the concepts are sort of broken out
into separate get and set functions all
wrapped in an object, that is, that's sort
of the more modern way of defining things.
But again for
simple read-only computed properties,
doing things the Ember
classic way is totally
fine.
>> Mike North: For
settable computed properties, as I said,
we're gonna provide a method set.
And that will take in,
as arguments, the property key and
the new value of the property
that has just been set.
And you can see here,
we've sort of performed
the reverse of getting full name.
We split the new value by space,
and then everything before
the space is the first name, everything
after the space is the last name.
We set those two properties,
firstName and lastName, and
then very important, in our setter,
we return the new value that was
just passed in and this has to do with
the way that caching works under the hood.
If you don't return new val at the end
of your setter, you will end up with
mysterious and hard to track down bugs.
>> Mike North: Everyone
get how this works?
>> Speaker 2: What is key in set method?
>> Mike North: In this case,
key is gonna be fullName.
And the reason that you're passing key in
is if you think about how this would look
when abstracted a little bit.
So say that we had something
more generic that was a factory
that was spitting out the result
of calling this function computed.
We may not necessarily know exactly
which property is being set.
This may just be a function
that is generally used and
we need to be aware of exactly what
we're dealing with at that moment.
So in this case, not so clear how it's
useful, but in the case where you abstract
it a little bit more, there are situations
where you really need to know what is
the property that you're dealing with.
So you can see the way
I defined dependencies.
firstName and lastName are the first
two arguments passed into computed.
Actually, everything except for
the last argument passed into computed.
That's taken as the name
of a dependent property.
And if you remember when we were
talking about get and set, you can
have a path deep into a hierarchy like
name.first which would be
drilling into an object and
declaring a dependency on
a property deep within a hierarchy.
And just like we were
talking about how you
have to treat arrays a little
bit differently with get.
You have to treat arrays a little bit
differently when you deal with computed
properties as well.
Because the arrays in and
of themselves are observable.